Now we have our data in our
project. We're just going to
turn off the two basemaps
because we don't need them and
they can slow us down a bit
and we can see our layers here.
We can use the arrow next to the
layers to either see the
symbology or close it. Sometimes
it's good to close it just so we
can see all of the layers
clearly.
And now we're going to take a
look at the first layer, which
is the biomonitoring points. So
this is a vector point data
layer
and then looking at the roads
and tracks, these are vector
line data
and then the Ziama landscape is
a vector polygon. And then we
have the two rasters at the
bottom, the landcover and the
DEM. And we're going to go over
those a bit more in another
video
and we're going to be going over
how to look at the attributes of
our different layers.
So looking at the Biomonitoring
layer, we can right click on
this layer
and then click Attribute table
and this is going to open up our
attributes which are the
information attached to our data
layers. And so this is the
information attached to the
biomonitoring data layer.
And in this table, we can see
that we've got a row for each
point,
and the points are representing
a location of a species.
And so the information that we
have is we've got the date that
the sighting was located, we've
got the location in latitude and
longitude, and this is what's
allowing the data point to be
put on the map. We've got the
species that were cited
and then we've got the indicator
of the sighting as well.
What we can do with this
attribute table is we can use it
to select the data that we want
and then see it upon our map. To
do this we just need to click on
the row number on the left and
then this is going to select
this point or this row and so we
can see the highlighted point on
our map.
We could also hold the click
button and drag up or down to
select multiple adjacent points.
Or we can use the control button
to select multiple unadjacent
points just by clicking on a row
holding control and then
clicking the other rows that we
want to select.
If we want to clear our
selection, we can click on the
clear button here,
or we can also click on the
white corner of the table
and so that's how to view our
attributes of our data layers.